---
title: SciWrite Essay 2
tags: learning,professional development,writing
category: progress
permalink: 2013/11/sciwrite-essay-2
layout: post
comments: true
---

#Essay 2 completed for the SciWrite MOOC offered by Stanford University.

The market for online educational software is at an all-time high as evidenced by the emergence of fully online degree programs. However, online teaching/learning systems are still at their core primitive content delivery systems. These systems fail students by 1) constraining student responses to quantities the system explicitly asks for, and in the way students must enter their answers and 2) their inability to discern what is incorrect in a student answer. There exists a tremendous need for an online teaching/learning system which can be used in courses containing difficult content such as are found in the Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) fields. Such a system would provide the immediate feedback that students need to be successful in these courses without direct input from an instructor. If successful, this type of software would open up the online learning environment to a wide array of engineering and related STEM courses.

To achieve these goals, we have devised a next generation intelligent online learning platform. The system revolutionizes engineering online education by "understanding a subject" instead of delivering content. When presented with a problem, a student response is not constrained in any way. A student may enter an equation, diagram, graph, or text related to any solution, intermediate step, or even extraneous aspect of the system. Any and all possible entries are evaluated (using adaptive algorithms) and the student is given feedback. This gives students the freedom to explore their ideas and receive feedback as if the instructor were looking over their work in real time. In addition, the system is based on interactive, fully three dimensional engineering problems. This lends authenticity and gives students the ability to explore the spatial relation between machine parts, gears, pulleys, etc. Students may engage with the question content on a level not available in any other online homework systems. The system also includes hundreds of searchable videos describing theory and providing examples for students as well as practice problems where they can ask for solutions. This makes the system ideal for students learning outside the formal classroom environment. For example, a student might use the software to learn statics while in high school or over a summer. 

The primary benefit of this software is that it removes the need for constant involvement of the course instructor. The software instead acts as the instructor and provides specific, targeted feedback to the student to help them learn the content in their own way and at their own pace. We believe that this will lead to both greater retention in massively open online courses (MOOCs) and enhanced learning outcomes if incorporated into the traditional classroom setting. Further, we feel that the software will provide a platform for "skill-based credentialing" (students prove their proficiency in individual course subtopics) which is being explored in many engineering programs across the country and will make the software an attractive solution for many engineering educators. This feature is particularly useful to assessing accreditation outcomes and would be very beneficial to instructors/administrators for that purpose.

As previously mentioned, the primary competition in the area of online learning systems (such as WeBWork or MasteringEngineering/MasteringPhysics) provide passive content delivery and rudimentary student interactions. Where these pieces of software fail (ease of use, student engagement, and adaptive feedback) our approach excels. We believe that this will give us the necessary boost to achieve successful commercialization of our approach to the online learning environment.
