---
title: University Teaching 101
tags: sotl,teaching,learning,education,EngEd
permalink: 2014/03/uni-teaching-101
layout: post
comments: true
---

While I am working on my [SoTL project]({% post_url 2014-01-30-intro-sotl-project %}), I came across and signed up for a MOOC offered by Johns Hopkins University through Coursera. The course is called University Teaching 101. It lasts 6 weeks and covers an intro to the science of teaching and learning down to specific strategies that can be employed. I'm going to collect some of my notes here as a complement to my own SoTL project and as a way to develop myself professionally.

#Resource
  "University Teaching 101" by Dr. Pamela R. Jeffries and David W. Andrews (2014).[ Coursera](https://class.coursera.org/univteaching101-001).

#Course Description (from the website)
Not too long ago, it was believed that anyone who graduated from a doctoral program was capable of teaching. In recent years, however, it has become apparent that teaching is not an intuitive behavior. In addition to content, teaching also involves a complex intellectual process, and to develop the "art" of teaching, professors require guidance and support. As the roles and responsibilities of university-level educators have evolved and expanded in recent years, the preparation of emerging university faculty leaders must focus on the development of the knowledge, skills, and strategies for teaching and learning in higher education. This short course is designed to introduce the strategies and exemplars of university teaching skills necessary to meet these new professional demands for teaching at a university level.

Higher education professionals, new PhD graduates, newly hired university educators and research scientists, and others interested in enhancing their teaching techniques in a university setting will acquire in this six-week course the foundational knowledge of the science of teaching and learning and develop skills and strategies for teaching at the university level.

#Learning Outcomes (from the website)
* Discuss the science of teaching and learning as a foundational block in being an educator
* Describe the important principles of best practices in education that will enhance the students' learning in a classroom, laboratory, or clinical setting
* Describe how to know your student audience when teaching
* Describe how to develop an effective instructional plan, including goals, objectives, a course description, and a course syllabus
* Discuss key elements in planning and facilitating effective small group learning
* Discuss teaching and learning strategies and practices for facilitating online courses 
